In today's episode, I'm going to walk
you step-by-step through creating 150
trial reels for Instagram in less than
15 minutes using chat GPT and Canva.
[music]
Now, you absolutely could use the steps
outlined in today's episode to help you
create normal Instagram reels. However,
the primary purpose of the flow I'm
going to show you is to create trial
reels, a kind of post that is only shown
to non-followers. And specifically, I'm
going to walk you through how you can
create slight modifications of numerous
posts so that they are good to go and
have the green light to be posted
[music] as a trial reel, but you
wouldn't want to necessarily post
multiple slight variations of the exact
same reel over and over again to your
feed. So again, you could use this for
pretty much any kind [music] of content,
but specifically, this is going to be a
great way to create a lot of trial reels
in a short amount of time. If you need
more of a background as to what trial
reels are, why they are so effective,
and my strategies for getting the most
out of them, I'll link a video up here
so that you can go back and watch that
because I've done a few episodes about
trial reels in the past. Today, we're
going to really focus on creating a lot
of content in a short amount of time so
that you can use them for trial reels.
Step number one is to collect or record
50 B-roll videos of yourself. B-roll
videos are kind of like
behind-the-scenes footage. It's short
little clips of you doing things
throughout your normal daily life or
your normal routine. You could kind of
think of it as like fly-on-the-wall
content or behind-the-scenes content.
It's content where you're not making eye
contact with the camera, but you're
doing something. And it's almost like
the camera just happens to be filming
you while you're doing that thing. As a
side note, adding B-roll footage to your
talking head reels is one of the easiest
ways to make them more engaging. So,
hopefully, you already have at least
some footage of yourself. If not, you
definitely want to start recording some
today for the future. And for the sake
of this process that I'm about to be
explaining to you, you need 50 different
videos of yourself doing things
throughout your daily life. Now, if
you've never filmed any B-roll before,
that's probably going to sound pretty
overwhelming. So, I have two tips to
give you with filming or creating this
B-roll content. Number one, you want to
make sure that the B-roll relates to
your niche. So, for example, you don't
want a B-roll video of yourself cooking
dinner if your niche is fantasy novels
and reviewing books. You want to make
sure that the B-roll content is in
alignment or at least related to what it
is you post about, your niche. And then
the second tip is for coming up with a
shot list or figuring out like what you
should actually film. You can use chat
GPT for that. And don't worry, we're
going to use chat GPT for other things
in the remainder of today's episode. But
basically, you could prompt chat GPT
with something like "I am a blank and I
need 50 B-roll videos of myself that
relate to my job. Give me a shot list
with different settings, angles,
actions, and circumstances that I can
film." And then one other tip about the
actual B-roll content when you are
filming it, have a couple different
changes of clothes or at least like
change your shirt out from scene to
scene. You don't want 50 videos of you
wearing the exact same blue shirt where
it looks like all of these clips were
filmed on the exact same day. You want
some variety to it so that not every
single video looks identical to the one
before it. So, as you are filming the
shot list that chat GPT gives you, just
every once in a while, maybe every 10
videos or so, change out what you're
wearing so that it looks like it was
filmed on a different day. Because most
of these clips were filmed on my phone,
I found it easiest to just put them all
into one single folder in my camera roll
and then Airdrop them to my computer. I
think it's much easier to move around
files and export and upload things from
a computer or a desktop than it is on
your phone. So, I Airdropped all 50 of
those videos to my laptop. And then,
step number two is I want you to upload
all 50 of those short B-roll videos,
which by the way, I should have
mentioned this earlier. When I say
short, I mean they only have to be like
5 to 10 seconds max. Take all 50 of
those videos and upload them to Canva.
Just drag and drop them right into
Canva. And depending on your Wi-Fi
speed, it might take a few minutes or it
might even take a few hours for all of
these videos to upload. But don't worry,
you don't have to just sit there and
twirl your thumbs while you wait. We're
actually going to then go back to chat
GPT and we're going to begin the next
step in the process. To give you a
little sneak preview of where we're
going, essentially, we're going to be
creating B-roll reels. These are reels
that are relatively short, 5 to 10
seconds long. They have a B-roll clip of
you, and then they have some text on the
screen. Some sort of headline, some sort
of hook, some sort of stat or quote,
something on the screen. And that's it.
Really simple and really easy to create.
So, right now, in step number three,
we're going to have chat GPT help us
come up with the text on the screen.
More specifically, we're going to have
chat GPT create 150 different posts. And
even more specifically than that, we're
going to have it create 50 different
versions of three different kinds of
posts. The first kind of post that we're
going to use chat GPT to create 50 of is
a "This is a trial reel" trial reel.
These are the kinds of trial reels where
on the trial reel itself, it says, "This
is a trial reel." It is directly calling
out the fact that the viewer does not
follow the creator. And so, by directly
calling that out, you can then
creatively and interactively encourage
the viewer to click on your profile, to
follow you, to read the caption, or
whatever it may be. Here's the prompt
that I want you to give chat GPT.
Generate 50 different versions of one to
three sentence on-screen text blocks for
Instagram trial reels. Each text block
should explicitly mention that this is a
trial reel and encourage interaction,
such as a follow, a comment, a guess, a
pause, a tap, etc. The tone should be
casual, confident, slightly playful, and
not salesy. Feel free to make that part
your own if you want a slightly
different tone. Avoid emojis, hashtags,
or calls to the link in bio. Some
prompts should call out that the viewer
doesn't follow me yet. Reference the
algorithm showing them this anyway.
Invite guessing, curiosity, or
self-identification.
Lightly tease or challenge the viewer.
Output a numbered list from 1 through
50. Once you give that prompt to chat
GPT, you'll end up with a list including
things like, "This is a trial reel. I
bet you can't guess how many followers I
have. No cheating."
"I know you don't follow me, but I post
about blank." Whatever it is you post
about. "Even though you don't follow me,
this post reached you because you're
into blank. Luckily, that's what I post
about." Again, that is the first kind of
post that you're having chat GPT create.
You now have 50 total posts. The second
kind of post or the second kind of text
block that you're having chat GPT create
is text blocks with short quotes, tips,
stats, or little things that you
yourself share. Now, you could go
through and manually come up with 50 of
these on your own. Or what I did was I
uploaded a bunch of my old podcasts, a
bunch of my old Instagram reel scripts.
I even just scrolled through my own
Instagram page and kind of jotted down
some of the ideas that I was sharing in
different posts. I uploaded all of that
to chat GPT, and then I prompted it with
this. "Generate 50 one to three sentence
on-screen text blocks for Instagram
trial reels. Each text block should feel
like my own voice and represent quick
tips, stats, short stories, blunt
truths, phrases I often say, mini
anecdotes, or quotable lines that I
would realistically say on camera. The
tone should be" and then feel free to
insert your own tone. I usually say the
tone should be direct, confident,
slightly opinionated, no fluff, no
emojis, no hashtags, and not salesy.
These are meant to be stand-alone
insights, not calls to action. Write
them as if they are pulled straight from
my brain or past content. Concise,
scroll-stopping, and practical. Output a
numbered list from 1 to 50." And once
chat GPT creates that list, you'll now
have 100 total text blocks. Now, we're
going to move on to the third kind of
post or the third text block that you're
going to have chat GPT create to bring
us to a total of 150. And this one is
what I call the repeatable format. Now,
this goes back to something that I
talked about in last week's episode of
Build Your Tribe. But I believe that a
really effective way to scale up your
output, post more, see more growth, more
results, more views, but not have to
work so hard, is to come up with some
sort of repeatable format. This is a
style that doesn't have to necessarily
be unique to you, but it is a style that
you can create over and over and over
again. For me, one of those repeatable
formats is what I call my award reel.
It's this reel that I post probably
every other month where I'm holding up a
trophy of an award, and then the text on
the screen just changes. Who I'm giving
the award to or who wins the award or
who can claim the award is all that's
changing. So, for this third kind of
content, this repeatable format, I
basically had chat GPT come up with 50
different text blocks that could
describe who was going to win the award.
This is going to require a little bit
more work, a little bit more creativity
on your end to come up with what is that
repeatable format going to be, and then
how could chat GPT give me the text on
screen. But if you're not feeling super
creative today, feel free to steal my
idea. Feel free to create your own
version of the holding up a trophy reel.
You could hold up an emoji of a trophy
or hold up a real trophy if you happen
to have one lying around. And then just
have chat GPT generate 50 different
ideas or examples of who could be
winning said trophy that will relate to
your niche. As long as you aren't an
Instagram expert or an Instagram growth
coach like myself, your examples, your
text blocks, are going to be different
than me. So, knock your socks off. Are
you ready to take your business
marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo,
the all-in-one marketing and CRM
platform built to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM, reach your
audience through email and SMS, and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to help you
improve your strategy in real time. It's
like having a marketing expert on your
team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers
advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AI-driven
personalization. Everything you need to
create multi-channel campaigns that hit
the mark every single time. Get started
for free today or use code TRIBE50 to
save 50% on starter and standard plans
for the first 3 months of the annual
subscription. Just head to
www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. Once ChatGPT creates
those final 50 ideas, like I said, you
now have 150 total text blocks. I want
you to copy each list of 50 and paste
them into a new Google Sheet. This
Google Sheet should have three separate
sheets within it. One sheet for each of
the different kinds of trial reels.
Hopefully, by this point, all of your
B-roll videos are done uploading to
Canva because now we're going to go back
to Canva and we're going to combine
these B-roll videos with the text that
ChatGPT just helped us create. Step five
in Canva is to create an Instagram reel.
Step number six is to add a piece of
text onto your reel. Now, the reel that
we're looking at on the screen right now
is going to serve as kind of like your
template that all of the rest of your
reels are going to be based off of. So,
I want you to add the text into kind of
like the upper third area, like where
the normal title or headline for your
reel would be. I also want you to make
the text size so that it would fit and
that it would look not too big or not
too small to be read on Instagram. I
usually find that around a 75-point
font is good. And then in terms of the
font, I recommend using Helvetica
because that's the one that is most
similar to the basic Instagram text.
Quick sidebar, can we all please agree
to stop using these silly cursive weird
fonts that no one can read on Instagram?
Just stick with the basic font and
that's good enough.
Then I like to make my text white and
then I click on the elements button and
I add an outline that is black to my
text. And don't worry, it doesn't have
to be perfect. It can totally be changed
or moved around in the future. Then in
the left-hand menu, I want you to scroll
down and click on the option that says
audio. From there, you could really pick
any song you want, but I find it's best
to pick something that is not super
specific or recognizable because you
could use a song that's popular or
trending today, but maybe when you
actually post one of these trial reels 5
months from now, it's not going to be as
popular or trending. So, instead, what I
like to do is scroll down to the section
that has instrumentals and just pick one
of the instrumentals in there that
generally fits my vibe. It generally
fits the mood or the tone that most of
my trial reels will fall into. Once you
select one, just add it to your template
reel and that's step number seven.
Moving on to step number eight, you're
going to go back to the menu on the
left-hand side and click on the button
that says bulk create.
Then step number nine, click on the
button that says Google Sheets. And
because you just created the Google
Sheet that has all of your text blocks
in it, it should be one of the first one
that shows up, but you might have to
search for it. Or if you've never
connected your Google account to Canva
before, then of course, you'd have to do
that right now. Something that I'm
trying not to do in 2026 is to use the
term small business because let's be
real, there's nothing small about the
business that you are building. The
number of different hats that you have
to wear is not small. The decisions that
you have to make on a daily basis are
not small. And the impact that you're
making on yourself, your family, your
customers, and possibly the entire world
is not small either. And for so many
business owners, the number of different
platforms that you have to learn to use
is also not small. But thanks to
Shopify, it can be because Shopify is
the e-commerce platform that has all the
tools you need in one place because
Shopify itself used to be a
small business. Shopify's point of sale
system is a unified command center for
your retail business. It brings together
in-person and online operations with up
to 1,000 locations, which makes your
customers' lives easier by making
shopping convenient. Endless aisles,
ship to customer, buy online, pick up in
store, all made simpler so that
customers can shop the way they want and
staff has tools to close the sale every
time. But let's face it, acquiring new
customers is expensive. With Shopify
POS, you can keep customers coming back
with personalized experiences and
first-party data, which gives your
marketing team a competitive edge. In
fact, it's proven and you know I love me
some numbers. Based on a report from EY,
businesses on Shopify POS see real
results, like 22% better total cost of
ownership and benefits equivalent to an
8.9% uplift in sales on average relative
to the markets that surveyed. Get all of
the big stuff for your small business
right with Shopify. Sign up for your $1
per month trial and start selling on
Shopify today at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
Again, that's shopify.com/tribe.
And then once you click sheet, it will
show you the three different pages or
the three different sheets within the
sheet that you have created. So, just
select the first one first. Then click
done in the upper right. Now, all you
have to do is tap on the text box that
we previously created. Tap on those
three dots on the right-hand side and
then click connect data. You should see
the data from the first cell of the
first sheet pop up. Basically, you
should see the text from that first page
pop up. Just click on that and then
click on the button that says continue
in the bottom left. And then press the
button that says create 49 or 50 or
however many you actually ended up
making designs. Then that will take a
few seconds to set up and then a little
pop-up will appear at the top and you
can press the button that says view
design to take you to all of your
content. What we essentially just did
was create 50 different Instagram reels
that currently don't have any videos,
but they have the text on the screen and
they have the audio in the background.
Now, what we're going to do is we're
going to add the videos, those little
B-roll clips, to each of those
individual frames and we're basically
done. To do this, step number 12 is to
click on the button that says uploads
and then find all of those B-roll videos
that you just uploaded. And then one by
one, just drag them onto the screen,
resize them so that they fit
appropriately. And then step 13 is to
one by one drag them onto the screen,
resize them so that they fit
appropriately. And you may have to
resize the text because sometimes it
might have a three-sentence text block
and then a one-sentence text block and
so it might just not look the same or
look proportionally formatted. So, you
might have to play around with it a
little bit to make sure that it looks
nice, but then you're basically done.
All you have to do from there is press
the share button and then make sure that
it is set as download pages as separate
files. That way you're going to get 50
different files, 50 different videos as
your export rather than like one video
of each of these individual clips like
playing back-to-back. You don't want
that. So, just make sure you press
download pages as separate files. And
then you can repeat this exact same
process for the other two Google Sheets
for the remaining 100 text blocks that
ChatGPT created for you. And at the end
of this, you'll have 150
different videos that you can post as
trial reels onto your Instagram. Now, to
take it a step further, the final step
that I would recommend doing is using
Metricool, which is my favorite
scheduling tool, to schedule your trial
reels. Since trial reels launched in
December of 2024, I've been saying that
the biggest downside, the biggest
negative for trial reels is that you
can't schedule them. You had to just
remember to manually post them all
yourself. And then a few months later,
Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, is
like, "We're working on a way to
schedule trial reels. We wanted to make
sure that people would use them first
and now we're working on a way to
schedule them." No offense, but
Instagram's slow. Instagram's very
glitchy. I don't know when or if they
will ever give us the ability to
schedule trial reels. So, in the
meantime, what I'm doing and what I
recommend you do is use a third-party
tool such as Metricool to schedule these
trial reels. If you schedule five trial
reels per day using the 150 trial reels
that you just created, you basically
have 30 days' worth of trial reels that
you now don't even have to think about.
That means that you'll have to do this
process at maximum 12 times this entire
year and you'll get the most juice
possible from squeezing Instagram trial
reels. You'll get better results, the
best results possible by uploading every
single day. And of course, if you ever
do have something that you want to just
genuinely trial, you want to test out,
you want to post as a trial reel and see
how it does, you can always substitute
that in and take out one of these so
that you just have even more posts ready
to go for the future. If you found this
episode helpful, press the thumbs up
button. And if you found this episode
super helpful, then consider hyping this
video. It's a way that you can kind of
specifically tell the YouTube algorithm,
"Hey, this is a really good video and
more people should see it." Regardless
of what button you just pressed, thank
you so much for watching. And as always,
happy networking.